Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 1\. Knowing the Triune God

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 173

##  1\. Knowing the Triune God

Beginning with the Triune God

"In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth" (Genesis 1:1)  
"In the beginning was the Word" (John 1:1)  
"God is love" (1 John 4:7b)

Before we start discussing how to overcome the dark night of the
soul/depression, I invite us to reflect and think theologically. Let us all
think about the event of creation. What is the origin of the universe? Where
do humans come from? Where does this universe come from? Why does everything
exist from nothing? These questions are important because life becomes
meaningful when we know that it has a starting point. Living life without
knowing its beginning is a meaningless life. The beginning of everything is
very important.

We are grateful because the Bible declares that this world and human life have
a beginning. The universe and humans began when they were created by God
through his word and Spirit. Everything was created by God and for God.

When the universe and humans were created by God, it means all creation has
meaning and significance according to the design of its Creator. Just as every
work of art has an artist behind its existence and has a function, so do you
and I. We have a beginning and have a meaning in life. David states this in
his reflection in the book of Psalms.

"I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made." (Psalm 139:14)

We exist because God created us. Everything exists by the grace of God. And,
this world also exists because God created us.

After being convinced by the scriptures that the universe was created by God,
I invite us to reflect back for a moment to the time before God created the
heavens and the earth. That was the eternal moment before creation. At that
time, only God Himself existed, there was no universe. God is from everlasting
to everlasting. He is a self-sufficient God, who does not depend on anything.
He is a transcendent God. A God different from all creation. A sovereign God.
And, He exists in Himself.

Let's imagine for a moment when God had not yet created the heavens and the
earth. He existed alone and in Himself. Was He a God who was satisfied and
full of Himself? Was He a lonely God? Did God feel emptiness in Himself? Is it
because of loneliness that He needed the universe and humans? This sounds like
a silly question. However, there is theological relevance to this question for
us.

Perhaps, some think that God was lonely so He created the universe and humans.
He needed fellowship with humans. But, is this the right thought? Of course
not! The God in the Bible is a God who is abundant. The God of the Bible is a
God who is full and satisfied in Himself. Why is that? Because He is a God who
depends on Himself. He is a God who is sufficient in Himself. He is a God who
is Love. And, He is the Love even though humans were not yet created. But, the
question is, whom did He love?

Here is the answer: God loved Himself through each person of the Trinity. The
mutual love in the context where He loves Himself is not something selfish.
Because, the Christian God in the Bible is the Triune God. A God who is one
but has three persons: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The Triune God is our
God. God is love, and He loves Himself. God the Father loves God the Son and
the Holy Spirit, God the Son loves God the Father and the Holy Spirit, and the
Holy Spirit loves God the Father and the Son. The Christian God is a God of
love and joy. This is the concept we must hold that God is a happy Person. He
is an overflowing God.

Because God loves Himself in each person of God, our God is a God who is
satisfied and full in Himself. He is a God who is abundant in love. God's
unlimited love is given to each Person in Himself. He is not a God who is
lonely and empty so that He needs creation to fill His existence. This is also
an important concept. Because, if our God is a God who is lonely, empty, and
needs something outside of Himself, then our God cannot be the God of
blessing. If our God is like that, then He is a person who has a deficiency
towards something, namely needing creation. It would be a terrifying thing if
we had such a God.

However, praise the Lord. The God witnessed in the Bible is a God who is
satisfied, full, and abundant. His nature full of grace is the foundation and
hope for those experiencing depression and other mental disorders. God is a
God who wants to bless humans. God is the source of grace who wants to share
His blessings with us.

Moreover, God who is love and God who is happy in Himself is the basis of our
human happiness. Because God wants His people to be happy. God wants to bestow
goodness on His people, although this is often not understood with our limited
human perspective. Often we see the suffering of life as something bad, even
as a curse. However, God works in everything to bring good to those who love
Him (Romans 8:28). There is a hidden blessing behind suffering. God wants His
people to get goodness and happiness because He is a good God.

So, for those of us who are struggling with the dark night of the
soul/depression and other mental disorders, let's put our hope in God, the
source of grace who wants to give His love to us. He created us because He
wants to share His abundant love with us.

"Taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the one who takes refuge in
Him!" (Psalm 34:8)

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: Pen Strokes: Life is Full of Mysteries  Prev Next article:
2. The Ultimate Purpose: The Glory of God  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

