Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 15\. Renewal of Heart and Mind (I)

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 102

##  15\. Renewal of Heart and Mind (I)

"Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the
renewing of your mind, so that you may discern what is God's will: what is
good, pleasing to God, and perfect." (Romans 12:2)

The process of life renewal is God's work and also the responsibility of
humans. If we investigate, God's work is to change what is chaotic into order.
From darkness into light. From the old creation to a new creation. When God
changes chaos into order, that is when God's name is glorified. In the context
of this change, let's discuss changes in human thoughts, emotions, and
behaviors.

a. Thoughts, emotions, and behavior.  
The mind has the power to control someone's emotions and behavior. As
previously explained, depression sufferers have struggles in their thoughts,
emotions, and behaviors. Their thoughts may feel chaotic and turbulent. Their
emotions are also in disarray, filled with feelings of depression, worry,
fear, etc. Their behavior can become unnatural. Therefore, various approaches
are used to provide therapy for depression sufferers.

First, therapy by using behavior change. This approach tries to change a
person's behavior to live in the right pattern. Actually, this approach is not
bad, but it is somewhat superficial because many people try to change their
behavior, but it does not last long. Behavioral changes not accompanied by
proper understanding will not last long in fundamentally changing behavior.

There is also therapy that uses an approach focusing on emotions. This too is
not an approach that can solve the problem. Finally, modern psychology has
found a better approach, which is to focus therapy on the mind. This approach
is called Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. Why focus on the mind? It turns out
that modern psychology has discovered a link between thoughts, emotions, and
behavior. Wrong thoughts lead to wrong emotions. And, wrong emotions lead to
wrong behavior. That is the correct sequence because everything starts with
the mind, which then affects emotions, and it is these emotions that influence
behavior. So, if you want to change someone, do not try to change their
behavior. Because a person's behavior is driven by their emotions and
thoughts. Behavioral changes not accompanied by thought changes will only
superficially change a person, not fundamentally to the cause.

In the light of the Bible, it is mentioned that the heart is the center of
human life.  
"Above all else, guard your heart, for everything you do flows from it."
(Proverbs 4:23).

The heart is related to the mind and will. That's why, in the first and
greatest commandment of love, the Lord commands His people as follows:  
"Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with
all your mind." (Matthew 22:37).

Because the heart is the center of a person's life, to change their life,
their heart must be changed first. The following is the word of God concerning
this change of heart and mind:  
"Once you were alienated from God and were enemies in your minds because of
your evil behavior" (Colossians 1:21).

"Therefore, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy, I urge you to offer
your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God—this is your true
and proper worship. Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be
transformed by the renewing of your mind (transforming renewing of your mind),
so that you may discern what is God's will: what is good, pleasing to God, and
perfect." (Romans 12:1-2)

The renewal of the mind or intellect is very important. With the renewal of
the mind, emotions will be renewed, as well as behavior. One thing to remember
is: everything that enters our mind will come out in our behavior. If we put
trash into our minds, then trash will come out in our behavior. The principle
is the same as the saying "garbage in, garbage out" (if trash goes in, trash
will come out).

There is a close relationship between thoughts, behavior, and habits.
Incorrect thoughts lead to incorrect behavior. Repeated incorrect behavior can
lead to bad habits. When behavior becomes habitual, it can form a person’s
character or nature. And strong habits build a solid fortress.

Humans, created by God, have the ability to form habits to simplify life. For
example, before we become proficient in driving, we must first learn how to go
forward, reverse, turn, and so on. Initially, it will feel difficult because
it is unfamiliar. But over time, driving becomes a habit ingrained in the
subconscious. Therefore, a person who is proficient in driving can do it while
listening to music and talking. Becoming accustomed makes one able to perform
tasks easily and automatically.

However, on the other hand, bad habits can make someone's life difficult. Bad
habits are hard to change because they have formed a fortress and operate
automatically. Yet, what has been learned and become a habit can also be
discarded and then new habits can be formed. Of course, it takes time and a
process to create new habits to replace the old ones. And all this process
occurs in the mind. How?

The process to form new, good habits is done by filling the mind with good
things to produce good behavior. And good behavior, repeated over time, forms
good habits. On this matter, Jesus once taught with a parable:  
"Everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a
wise man who built his house on the rock. The rain came down, the floods came,
and the winds blew and beat against that house; yet it did not fall, because
it had its foundation on the rock." (Matthew 7:24-25).

This verse means that when someone understands the word of God and acts on it,
they are forming good habits. If good habits are practiced repeatedly, they
will form a strong fortress that is not easily shaken. As the saying goes,
"Practice makes perfect".

b. Warfare in the heart and mind.

Our minds are a battlefield. What does this mean? What war? With whom? Yes,
this is the war between truth and falsehood, between God and Satan, between
the word of God and the deceitful talk of the evil one.

"For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers,
against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the
spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms." (Ephesians 6:12).

Therefore, believers must understand the nature of this warfare. We live in a
world engulfed in cosmic warfare between the Kingdom of God and the kingdom of
the devil. Thus, the life of a believer is always caught in two great
tensions. On the one hand, the devil will not stand still and wants to bring
believers against God. But on the other hand, the Holy Spirit wants to lead
believers to do the will of God.

The warfare between God and the devil occurs in the hearts and minds of
humans. The mind is a battlefield between truth and falsehood. There, the war
between the right and wrong words occurs. This war actually began in the time
of Adam. At that time, God commanded man not to eat from the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil. In contrast, the devil's words were for man to eat
the fruit to become like God. So, the war there was a war of "words". Words
have power.

In this war of the mind, the devil's weapon is lies, while God's weapon is the
word of Truth. If someone believes the devil's lies in their mind, they are
influenced by the devil -- not possessed -- to a certain extent. Conversely,
if someone believes the truth of God in their heart and mind, they will be
influenced by the word.

In Neil T. Anderson's book "The Bondage Breaker," it is said that, "there are
people considered to be schizophrenic, who are actually influenced (not
possessed) by the devil in their minds."

Believers surely cannot be possessed by demons because the Spirit of God
dwells within them. Moreover, there is a difference between being possessed by
a demon and experiencing psychological disturbances. There are indeed people
who are psychologically ill, while others are truly possessed by demons. Thus,
when someone appears to lose self-control and behaves strangely, it is crucial
to diagnose accurately whether that person is experiencing a mental disorder
or demon possession. Indeed, sometimes the difference between the two is not
easily recognized.

Characteristics of someone possessed by a demon include a change in voice to
sound like someone else, possessing great strength, and an inability to
acknowledge that "Jesus Christ is Lord." A person with a mental disorder can
be influenced by medication, while a demon-possessed person cannot be affected
by it. These two conditions need to be distinguished and addressed
differently. A person possessed by a demon needs to be ministered by a servant
of God. Meanwhile, a person with a mental disorder, in addition to needing
spiritual guidance from a servant of God, also needs therapy from a doctor or
psychiatrist.

Returning to the earlier statement, where through his book, Neil T. Anderson
gives an important point, "there are people considered schizophrenic, who turn
out to be controlled by demons in their minds." Controlled by demons here does
not mean fully possessed (completely controlled) by demons, but controlled to
a certain extent in their minds. They are controlled because they believe in
the lies of the devil.

Jay Adams, a well-known Christian counselor, also said that non-organic mental
disorder schizophrenia can occur due to a seriously incorrect perception of
reality. This can also be caused by a lifestyle, a camouflage, or by a
conscience that feels fear and worry. All these are issues within the mind. If
we look at it from the perspective of warfare in the mind, then the problem of
non-organic mental disorder sufferers occurs because they believe the lies of
the devil in their hearts and minds. These lies of the devil can be in the
form of wrong views about God, about oneself, about the realities of life, and
about the truth. If someone believes the lies of the devil, then they are
controlled by the devil to a certain extent. Conversely, if someone is filled
with the Holy Spirit, they will be filled with the word of Truth.

While living in this world, believers will continue to experience this
warfare. In addition to the warfare between God and Satan, believers are also
in a battle between the flesh and the Spirit.  
"For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of
the flesh; but those who live according to the Spirit, on the things of the
Spirit. For the mind of the flesh is death, but the mind of the Spirit is life
and peace. Because the mind of the flesh is enmity against God, for it does
not submit to God's law; indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot
please God. But you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the
Spirit of God dwells in you. Now if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ,
he is not His." (Romans 8:5-9)

How can one win in this spiritual warfare and the warfare in the mind? Here
are the ways.

c. Subjecting the mind to Christ.

The mind is the battlefield. The devil tries to conquer the believers' minds
with his lies because that is how he can ensnare and dominate believers. That
is why we must always resist the devil and his lies, as it is said in James
4:7:  
        "Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you."

How can believers resist the devil? Clearly not by their own strength. The
devil is certainly smarter than humans and more experienced. He has lived so
long and has learned so much about humans. Therefore, believers can resist the
devil not with their own strength, but with the armor of God.

"Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor
of God so that you can take your stand against the devil’s schemes. For our
struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the
authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual
forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore put on the full armor of God,
so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and
after you have done everything, to stand. Stand firm then, with the belt of
truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in
place, and with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel
of peace. In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you
can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Take the helmet of
salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God. And pray in
the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this
in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the Lord’s people."
(Ephesians 6:10-18)

Satan can only be opposed with the armor of God. He cannot be opposed with
human strength, because Satan uses human wisdom and the empty philosophy of
the world to conquer the human mind.

"See to it that no one takes you captive through hollow and deceptive
philosophy, which depends on human tradition and the elemental spiritual
forces of this world rather than on Christ." (Colossians 2:8).

Many people feel empty and are looking for something meaningful to satisfy
their soul. They search through philosophical thought. However, philosophy
will not lead to soul satisfaction because of its truth. Worldly philosophy
will only end in emptiness and futility. Nevertheless, this empty worldly
philosophy is capable of captivating and enslaving human minds.  
Worldly philosophy is actually the human search for truth, so it is full of
questions about reality and truth. However, worldly philosophy will not be
able to answer all problems about truth. The answers to these fundamental
questions can only be found in the word of God. Philosophy asks, "Where does
this world come from?" The word of God answers, "It is God who created."
Philosophy asks, "Who am I?" The word of God answers, "I am made in the image
and likeness of God." Philosophy asks, "Where am I?" The word of God answers,
"I am in a sinful world, I live between God and Satan, and I live under God
and above nature to dominate nature." Philosophy asks, "What is the meaning of
life?" The word of God answers, "To glorify God, the Creator." Philosophy
asks, "What is the main problem of humanity?" The word of God answers, "Sin,
that is, opposing the Word of God, rebelling against God, and enmity with
God." Philosophy asks, "What can solve humanity's main problem?" The word of
God answers, "Redemption in Jesus Christ."

Worldly philosophy cannot answer human problems because it comes from limited
human thought. Only the word of God revealed by God can answer human problems
and satisfy their souls.

"The law of the Lord is perfect, refreshing the soul." (Psalm 19:7).

Worldly philosophy only captivates the human mind to be bound and enslaved.
Meanwhile, the word of God actually frees people from bondage.  
"If you remain in my word, you are truly my disciples and you will know the
truth, and the truth will set you free." (John 8:31-32)

If Satan's weapon is untruth, then God's weapon is truth. Therefore, we must
use the weapons of God to oppose untruth.  
"For the weapons of our warfare are not worldly, but have divine power to
destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised
against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ"
(2 Corinthians 10:4-5).

To win in this battle of the mind, believers must take every thought captive
to obey Christ.  
Many people (especially in the context of those suffering from depression)
have their minds filled with wrong thoughts. Their minds are filled with the
lies of Satan. Thoughts that have become habitual will form strongholds. And,
once they have become strongholds, they will be hard to change because they
have become solid. However, the word of God is able to demolish strongholds in
the human mind. The word of God is powerful to tear down every stronghold in
the human mind.

Let us continually fill our lives with the living word of God, as declared in
the following song of the Living Word.

Wonderful Words Of Life

    1\. Sing them over again to me,  
    Wonderful words of life;  
    Let me more of their beauty see,  
    Wonderful words of life.  
    Words of life and beauty  
    Teach me faith and duty;

        Refrain:  
        Beautiful words, wonderful words,  
        Wonderful words of life;  
        Beautiful words, wonderful words,  
        Wonderful words of life.  
       
    2\. Christ, the blessed One, gives to all  
    Wonderful words of life;  
    Sinner, list to the loving call,  
    Wonderful words of life.  
    All so freely given,  
    Wooing us to heaven;  
      
    3\. Sweetly echo the Gospel call,  
    Wonderful words of life;  
    Offer pardon and peace to all,  
    Wonderful words of life.  
    Jesus, only Savior,  
    Sanctify forever;

( Song: Wonderful Words of Life | Philip P. Bliss )



Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 14. Sanctification by the Holy Spirit  Prev Next article:
16. Renewal of Heart and Mind (II)  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

