Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 16\. Renewal of Heart and Mind (II)

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 100

##  16\. Renewal of Heart and Mind (II)

"... put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of
its Creator." (Colossians 3:10)

d. Filling the mind with the Word.

The Word of God is powerful, living, and life-giving. It refreshes the soul,
leads into truth, and sanctifies.  
"All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking,
correcting and training in righteousness, so that the servant of God may be
thoroughly equipped for every good work." (2 Timothy 3:16-17).

Therefore, the Word of God can change behavior, give victory in the battles of
the mind, and help to live according to God's will. Its application is very
simple: we must fill our minds with the Word of God, meditate on it day and
night, and put it into practice. Although reading the Word is a very simple
habit, it is truly powerful in transforming lives.

The mind of a depressed person is often filled with wrong, unrealistic
thoughts that do not align with the truth. The only way to remove these wrong
things is to fill it with the truth. The illustration is like a glass full of
dirty oil. To remove the dirty oil from the glass, clean water must be
continuously poured into it. The clean water, poured continuously, will
gradually displace the dirty oil from the glass. Eventually, the oil in the
glass will run out and clean water will replace it. What does this
illustration mean?

The glass represents a person's mind. The dirty oil is wrong thinking.
Meanwhile, the clean water is the pure Word of God. The Word of God will
continue to cleanse the glass filled with dirty oil until it becomes clean.
Then, the clean water will continue to fill the glass, even overflowing out.
The overflowing water is a picture of how the truth in a believer's life can
be a blessing to many people. This is what the Lord Jesus said in the book of
John:

"Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, rivers of living water will
flow from within them." (John 7:38)

So, the way for us to win in this battle of the mind is by filling our minds
with the Word.  
"Blessed is the one... whose delight is in the law of the LORD, and who
meditates on his law day and night. They are like a tree planted by streams of
water, which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf does not
wither—whatever they do prospers." (Psalm 1:2-3).  


Therefore, always fill our minds with the Word of God. From there, spiritual
growth and the fruits of the Spirit will be produced. Keep the Word of God as
the most precious treasure in your heart as the psalmist did.  
"I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you." (Psalm
119:11)

 Another practical application is to think about things that are noble and
good. The Bible teaches believers to think about God's will, to think about
things above, to think about spiritual matters. "Finally, brothers and
sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is
pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable—if anything is excellent or
praiseworthy—think about such things." (Philippians 4:8).

Just as the saying goes, "garbage in, garbage out," so it applies, "truth in,
fruits of truth out." Good thoughts will result in good behavior as well.

To implement all these practical applications, we can practice meditation.
Meditation is pondering the Word of God, reflecting oneself with the Word,
examining oneself according to the Word, and praying to God. This meditation
is an action that can change someone's life. In meditation, believers must ask
God to investigate their thoughts, because often we do not know the depths of
our own hearts. Therefore, we need to pray like David:  
"Search me, God, and know my heart; test me and know my anxious thoughts. See
if there is any offensive way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting."
(Psalm 139:23-24)

e. Speaking to oneself.

Humans are unique creatures. Besides being able to speak to others
(interpersonal), they can also speak to themselves (intrapersonal). Proverbs
18:21 states:  
"Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat
its fruits."

This means that the words spoken by the tongue have power in a person's life.
Therefore, Proverbs teaches us to be careful about the words we speak. And
this also applies to conversations with oneself, both verbally and in thought.
Every word has power.

Every day, people certainly have a dialogue with themselves. Positive self-
dialogue can generate enthusiasm. Conversely, negative dialogue can lead to
stress and depression. What people often experience in their lives is
listening to the negative words spoken by themselves. Those with mental
disorders also often hear negative self-talk. This is certainly unhealthy and
can cause depression.

How can we have a healthy dialogue with ourselves?

To do this, what needs to be done is not to listen to negative self-talk, but
to teach oneself. We need to teach ourselves with good and true words,
especially with the understanding of the word of God. Self strengthens self.
Self encourages self. Self supports self. This is what the Psalmist did.  
"Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope
in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God!" (Psalm 42:5).

The Psalmist speaks to himself about why he is depressed and restless within
himself. Then, the psalmist teaches himself to hope in the Lord. Herein lies
the healthy dialogue with oneself.

The conclusion from this point is that those suffering from depression must
learn to create a new dialogue with themselves that aligns with the word of
God. This dialogue can be done while meditating on the word and should be
continued throughout the day. Initially, it may feel strange because it is not
yet a habit. However, as actions are repeated, a habit will also form, where
the self will get used to teaching itself with the word. The Psalmist says, "I
bless the LORD who gives me counsel; in the night also my heart instructs me."
(Psalm 16:7). The habit of teaching oneself with good words is something that
has the power to change life. The habit of speaking to oneself also aligns
with the habit of speaking to God, which is certainly more important. Prayer
to God is the breath of life.

f. Music and spiritual hymns.

I really like music and can feel the benefits of music that blesses the soul,
especially spiritual hymns and good contemporary praise and worship songs.  
Music has a therapeutic effect and can be used to treat various disorders.
Music can also be used as therapy for hyperactive children, autistic children,
children with ADHD, and other special needs children. Music can change
someone's mood because it does affect the soul. Good music has a good
influence, while bad music will have a bad effect on the soul. On the other
hand, music is also an expression of someone's soul.

Music also has power over evil spirits. This can be seen through the story of
King Saul, who was troubled by an evil spirit, but became calm when he heard
David play music. I believe David brought spiritual songs and brought the
presence of God into his harp playing.  
"And whenever the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, David took the lyre and
played it with his hand. So Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil
spirit departed from him." (1 Samuel 16:23)

Now, there are many books that state that music plays a role in increasing
children's intelligence. This happens because music can activate brain neural
circuits related to cognitive functions in children, strengthen memory or
recall, and form logical thinking patterns. Good music itself indeed consists
of logical rules.

So, what is the relationship between music and people with depression?

First, music can bring the listener to the atmosphere carried by the music.
Music makes the ears hear and the brain work, thus making the mind
concentrate. Many mental disorder sufferers find it difficult to concentrate
because their thoughts are disorganized and wander everywhere. Music can help
them concentrate and focus their thoughts on the beauty of music.

Second, certain music, for instance classical music, forms a logical mindset.
Those suffering from mental disorders with illogical and disordered thoughts
may be aided by listening to classical music, which tends to follow certain
rules and patterns.

Third, certain music can soothe the listener's soul. Music can evoke alpha
brain waves that induce relaxation, which calms individuals with depression.
Music therapy is also beneficial in helping a person express emotions. For
example, by playing percussion, one can channel trapped emotions in a
healthier way.

Fourth, good spiritual music, such as praise and worship or hymns, can bring
the listener closer to God. Spiritual music that praises God encourages the
heart, mind, and feelings to praise God. When the listener's heart praises
God, our heart is prepared to receive the presence of God (who is always
present). We become more capable of feeling His presence in our hearts. When
the presence of God is more deeply felt, the heart becomes calm. The Psalmist
says, “I am at rest in God alone” (Psalm 62:2).  
Good spiritual music, containing words from the word of God, will strengthen
the spirituality of its listeners. When we praise and worship God, we are
glorifying God. And, being close to God has a therapeutic effect on our soul.
Praising and worshiping God makes us more like what we worship most, God
Himself. Seeing God's beauty by praising and worshiping Him is a way to become
like Him. The soul of a sinful person is flawed, but by loving God, their soul
becomes beautiful. Through worship to God, our souls are directed towards
God's perspective. We can then see that everything in this temporary world is
relative. It also has the power to destroy our narcissistic soul, soften our
defense mechanisms, and strengthen our souls to increasingly have a sense of
worth and a purpose in life in God.

Worshipping God gives believers hope. This is what allows us to direct our
attention to the Infinite One, who loves us. Good spiritual praise helps us
worship God. That is what will transform our hearts, minds, memories,
imaginations, actions, and even our brain structure, resulting in changes in
our life stories.

Good spiritual music is a combination of good words with the right tones. The
beauty of God's common grace in music, combined with the words of God's word
-- which is a special grace -- will greatly bless the life of the believer.
Martin Luther expressed this very well, "Next to the Word of God, music
deserves the highest praise. The gift of language combined with the gift of
song was given to man that he should proclaim the Word of God through music."

Based on personal experience, the music I find appropriate for music therapy
includes:  
\- Well Temper Clavier, St. Matthew Passion by Johan Sebastian Bach, Messiah
by George Frideric Handel, Elijah by Felix Mendelssohn, etc. Classical music
is useful for training concentration. There are many good classical songs
composed by Bach, Handel, Mendelssohn, Mozart, and colleagues. Musics like
Canon in D Major by Pachelbel, Air on the G String, and Jesu, Joy of Man's
Desiring by Bach are very soothing to the heart and mind.  
\- Spiritual hymns are very good for praising God and building our
spirituality. Hymns by Fanny Crosby, William Cowper, Charles Wesley, and other
Christian hymn composers can enrich our spirituality.  
\- Contemporary spiritual praise and worship songs -- which contain good words
and melodies -- can also bless our lives. I believe that not only past church
hymns can be used to bless us, but good contemporary praise can also be used
to bless us.

However, there are types of music that are not suitable for music therapy.
Music with harsh and loud tones, like rock music, is relatively unsuitable for
music therapy material. Coupled with lyrics that often contain violence and
anger, rock music tends to make the soul rebellious, impatient, not peaceful,
and even angry.

Good music can help the mental and spiritual well-being of humans. Therefore,
let's fill our lives with listening to good and constructive music. Beautiful
music and praise, which we sing with heart and lips, will bless our lives. May
we increasingly experience life transformation through praise to God.

He Keeps Me Singing

    1\. There’s within my heart a melody  
    Jesus whispers sweet and low,  
    “Fear not, I am with thee, peace, be still,”  
    In all of life’s ebb and flow.

        Refrain:  
        Jesus, Jesus, Jesus,  
        Sweetest Name I know,  
        Fills my every longing,  
        Keeps me singing as I go.

    2\. All my life was wrecked by sin and strife,  
    Discord filled my heart with pain,  
    Jesus swept across the broken strings,  
    Stirred the slumb’ring chords again.  
      
    3\. Feasting on the riches of His grace,  
    Resting ’neath His shelt’ring wing,  
    Always looking on His smiling face,  
    That is why I shout and sing.  
      
    4\. Though sometimes He leads through waters deep,  
    Trials fall across the way,  
    Though sometimes the path seems rough and steep,  
    See His footprints all the way.  
      
    5\. Soon He’s coming back to welcome me,  
    Far beyond the starry sky;  
    I shall wing my flight to worlds unknown,  
    I shall reign with Him on high.

( He Keeps Me Singing, Luther B. Bridgers)

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 15. Renewal of Heart and Mind (I)  Prev Next article: 17.
Life in Family and Church  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

