Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 17\. Life in Family and Church

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 101

##  17\. Life in Family and Church

"Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you
were called to peace. And be thankful." (Colossians 3:15)

One of humanity's perennial problems since its fall into sin is the problem of
relationships. Adam and Eve, as husband and wife, blamed each other. They hid
from God when He sought them because they were afraid of His presence. Their
perception of reality became inaccurate, even wrong.

Since the fall of Adam and Eve, family issues have continued to be a pressing
problem for humans to this day. This has become more complex with the
increasing individualistic nature of humans, greater life demands, and family
communication being distracted by cell phones, gadgets, and the internet. All
these disruptions have a negative impact on the harmony of relationships and
family. Families no longer have close relationships between husbands, wives,
and children. Children live with a lack of support and attention due to the
busyness of parents. Warm and close fellowship within the family is less, even
non-existent. Meaningful conversations rarely occur because everyone is busy
with their own affairs. However, neglecting family fellowship for the sake of
busyness is a big mistake. How sad the state of the family is in this era! How
pitiful the children are neglected due to a lack of love!

Many depression problems occur due to the absence of affection or the
occurrence of conflicts within the family. The family, which should be a place
for each member to love one another, instead becomes a place of conflict and
strife as a result of sin. Sin causes human life to stray from what God
intends. Sin only leads to misfortune in human life.

Speaking of sin, relationships, and family, we can be thankful because there
is hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. For, Jesus came to redeem every human
problem of sin, including family issues. The Bible likens the relationship
between husband and wife to that between Christ and His church. Christ Himself
has set an example when He sacrificed Himself for the church, which is the
body of Christ. Therefore, the Word of God requires families to love one
another. This is expressed in the advice for husbands to love their wives, and
for wives to submit to their husbands: "Wives, submit yourselves to your own
husbands as you do to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife as
Christ is the head of the church, His body, of which He is the Savior. Now as
the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in
everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and
gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with
water through the word, and to present her to himself as a radiant church,
without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. In this
same way, husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves
his wife loves himself. After all, no one ever hated their own body, but they
feed and care for their body, just as Christ does the church - for we are
members of His body. 'For this reason a man will leave his father and mother
and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.' This is a
profound mystery—but I am talking about Christ and the church. However, each
one of you also must love his wife as he loves himself, and the wife must
respect her husband." (Ephesians 5:22-33)

Families can have hope again because of Christ and His work on the cross. A
renewed family will become the most important support system for those
struggling with the dark night of the soul/depression. The family is where we
all share joys and sorrows. If one family member suffers, the other members
suffer as well.

When I was in a state of depression, I am thankful because God placed my
family as a support system. My mother is a person who continuously supported
and prayed for me when I was facing mental health issues. My father, although
not very talkative, also provided support when I was in difficult conditions.
My siblings always helped with whatever contributions they could make. This is
a great blessing for me. And my wife, Laura, is a loving, patient, and
supportive wife during the crisis periods of my life.

More than physical family support, I experienced tremendous support from the
church, which is a family in God. Many servants of God prayed for me. Many
fellow believers supported and became my friends in times of trouble (and
joy). Therefore, I want to share this truth, that those who suffer from
depression also need to grow within the family of God, which is the church. In
Christ, besides our physical family, we also have the family of God. In
Christ, we are all brothers and sisters in faith. In Christ, the congregation
is the body, and Christ is the head.

The Bible itself also teaches the church to love one another without being
self-centered.  
"So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any
participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by
being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one
mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count
others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his
own interests but also to the interests of others." (Philippians 2:1-4)

I believe that believers who struggle with the dark night of the
soul/depression have hope in the grace of the Lord. Those who suffer from
depression need a sense of security in their soul. First and foremost, this
security comes from God Himself. However, security also comes through the
environment. Then, where is the environment that can provide love and care for
those suffering from depression? Apart from the family, the church of God is
also called to apply this. In Christ, there is love that can make the
depressed feel recognized, loved, and accepted. Here, the church of God
functions as a community that heals each other. The church is the context in
which we grow in progressive sanctification. The church, which is the family
of God, is the answer to the need for human fellowship.

Those who are depressed may take comfort because they are not alone, but in
the family of God. In the family of God, each member is in a healing
community.

I Love the Family of the Lord

I love the family of the Lord  
Bound together in affection  
Everyone loves each other  
How happy I am to be  
The family of the Lord  
                (Popular hymn, taken from various sources)

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 16. Renewal of Heart and Mind (II)  Prev Next article: 18.
The Beautiful Risk of Sharing Life  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

