Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 18\. The Beautiful Risk of Sharing Life

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 98

##  18\. The Beautiful Risk of Sharing Life

"There is only one happiness in life: to love and be loved." -- George Sand

Humans were created by God in a relational context. We live not for ourselves
but are called to be in community and to love one another. Human beings are
relational creatures because they are created in the image and likeness of
God, who, although one in Essence, consists of Three Persons who love each
other. Therefore, humans, who are the image of God, are created to love and to
receive love.

To address the issue of dark night of the soul/depression and other mental
disorders, psychological therapy is used to help sufferers recover from these
struggles. There are therapies focused on ways to change thoughts like CBT
(Cognitive Behavioral Therapy). There are therapies that practice mindfulness,
where a person continuously observes their own thoughts without judgment and
while maintaining a distance from them. There is also psychoanalytic therapy,
where clients look for the root of their problems from past experiences.
Others include therapy that tries to find the meaning of life. And there are
many more types of therapy for depression or mental illness.  
Human personality is shaped both genetically -- from natural disposition --
and from the process of environmental formation. Our persona is also shaped by
the actions of others towards us and our response to them. For example, if
someone experienced violence from family members and bullying at school during
childhood, it could lead to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). This post-
traumatic stress disorder triggers the reappearance of memories of bitter
experiences and past violence, leading to continuous anxiety in the sufferer
in the present.

When someone has had difficult and traumatic experiences in the past that lead
to depression in the present, can these traumatic experiences be healed later?
Neuroscience research has found that the human brain can be rewired or
repaired. The human brain is not unchangeable. It can change and be changed.
Another interesting fact is that the human brain is not standalone, but
relational. Humans are created to be connected to one another.

In the book "Beautiful Risk" written by Jim Olthius, there is a story of a
woman who often felt anxious and experienced a burning sensation on her body,
even during the winter. In the counseling process between Jim Olthius and the
woman, Jim collected data regarding the background of her life. From there, he
learned that the client's mother had once intended to have an abortion while
pregnant. After realizing this fact, the client finally understood that all
the anxiety and burning sensations she experienced were traumatic experiences
due to her mother's actions. And, when she was able to acknowledge and connect
with that experience and forgive her mother, she began to recover from her
problems.

I myself have come to realize that the possible cause of the mental disorder I
am experiencing is because as a child I often experienced harsh treatment from
my father, both physically and verbally. Another possible factor is the stress
condition my mother experienced while pregnant with me and the family conflict
situation due to my father's stress from work pressure at the factory. In
addition, I was also cared for by a sister who often experienced stress,
hysteria, and even possession by demons. All these facts allow me to
understand the triggers of the schizoaffective disorder I am experiencing now.
However, I believe that it doesn't just stop there. There are still many of
God's blessings that I experience.

The process of discovering facts from the past involves intense relations and
communication, especially with my mother. By understanding the background of
my troubled past and then psychologically distancing myself from those
memories, I am building an awareness that what happened in the past is not
happening now. This mindfulness method aids in the healing of the mental
disorder I am experiencing. However, one of the most helpful factors in the
healing process is when I dared to open up to loved ones and share the
experiences I've had, both traumatic experiences and the struggles of sins
I've committed.

In God's grace, I too was given the courage to be open with several servants
of God, such as Pastor Joshua Lie, Pastor Yung Tik Yuk, Pastor Stephen Tong,
as well as many friends at the Reformed Institute. When recounting my past to
my wife and sharing life with people who love me, I was actually taking a
beautiful risk. This risk was indeed dangerous because I could have been
rejected, ridiculed, or insulted. However, the risk also had the potential to
bring about great healing. Humans indeed have the need to be known and loved,
as well as to love and know others.

When my friends and brothers and sisters empathize and understand my
experiences, it rewires or repairs my brain. The gazes, understanding, words,
and body language of the people who love me turned out to successfully reframe
the recordings of my past memories with a new interpretation. I was then able
to form a new perspective on the past. And, when the trauma of the past had
been shared with loved ones, the intensity of the suffering caused by the
trauma gradually decreased. I felt more and more that it had happened in the
past and no longer had the right to disturb me in the present. Even if the
traumatic memories still bothered me, I could try to condition myself that it
was over and just a part of my past. The response I received from the people
who loved me when sharing these traumatic experiences also further healed me.
This is a beautiful experience that we can gain when we love one another.

"Love is patient; love is kind; it does not envy. It does not boast, it is not
proud. It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily
angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but
rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes,
always perseveres. Love never fails; but where there are prophecies, they will
cease; where there are tongues, they will be stilled; where there is
knowledge, it will pass away." (1 Corinthians 13:4-8)

Love truly has the power to restore life!

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 17. Life in Family and Church  Prev Next article: 19.
William Cowper : A Sufferer of Depression Used by God  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

