Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 25\. Reflection II: Embracing and Celebrating Our Fragility

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 99

##  25\. Reflection II: Embracing and Celebrating Our Fragility

"Fullness is not about being perfect, but being able to embrace fragility as
an integral part of life." – Parker J. Palmer

Being fully human means embracing all weaknesses, vulnerabilities, and
fragilities. Humans are created by God within limitations and boundaries. We
must accept God's decree on humanity with all our being, that is, body and
soul, blood and flesh. As humans, we are limited by natural laws and the laws
of physics. Our bodily systems are governed by God's decrees. Humans need
oxygen, food, drink, and rest. Humans will get hurt if injured. Humans can cry
and lament when sad. And, humans need each other. We are designed as social
creatures who need each other, not solitary beings. Therefore, we must turn
away from the paradigm of being strong and independent and start having a
paradigm of being fragile and depending on others.

Indirectly, whether it comes from movies, comics, or from the general world
concept, we often have the view that the perfect and ideal human figure is
like a superhero. They are strong, independent, and capable of doing many
things alone, as if they are perfect and their weaknesses are hard to find.
They do not cry, do not tire, and are invulnerable. Unconsciously, we also get
carried away with the world's thinking that being an ideal human means being
strong, invulnerable, and not weak. Strong means being number one because the
weak will be sidelined and ignored.

On the other hand, the world also teaches that life is tough. So, we must be
strong if we do not want to be oppressed. This is a paradigm that highly
regards strength and power. Even since elementary school, our life values have
been indirectly categorized based on intelligence, ranking, achievements, and
obtained grades. If smart, we can enter the top ten, and those not included
are average or dumb. A valuable human life is only judged according to
intelligence that is reduced to mere numbers. This will become something
impersonal. The essence of humanity is then determined based on intelligence,
strength, and prowess. Humans are categorized in the spectrum of prodigy,
genius, smart, average, dumb, idiot, or distinguished as strong and weak,
talented and untalented. This causes a hierarchy or classification in viewing
humans. Humans race to reach the top of the pyramid because the higher one's
position in the pyramid, the greater their access to power and control over
others. Humans also compete and elbow each other, thus the law of survival of
the smartest and survival of the strongest prevails. We then ignore love and
human values, even towards ourselves. We cannot accept the uniqueness of our
peers as they are, without regard to intelligence, strength, beauty, and
whatever becomes the world's standard of perfection.

With this strong-weak or smart-dumb dichotomy, we tend to focus only on the
standard ideal type of human, the things that are considered to meet the
criteria for human fullness. However, this paradigm is truly impersonal and
inhumane. Those who are weak, disabled, less intelligent, and less talented
will be marginalized and become the marginalized. Love is not possible in a
paradigm of power, competition, and such a pyramid.

In their strength, power, and prowess, humans often distance themselves from
others. Conversely, when in the fragility and weakness of life, we can share
in our most authentic humanity. When the world has a paradigm focused on
worldly perfection, let's realize that we are indeed vulnerable, fragile, and
need each other.  
In this context, my contemplation on the humanity of Jesus Christ makes me
understand that Jesus also shared in human weakness and vulnerability. He
could feel hunger, thirst, fatigue, sadness, helplessness, sickness,
suffering, etc... (although uniquely, He was sinless). These are human things
that cannot be denied in His existence as a human. Like the Lord Jesus, we too
need to accept all the weaknesses and fragilities we have. When we want to be
someone super strong, invulnerable, and not fragile, we will not be humane.

In the previous section, I have shared stories about times when I listened to
complaints from several people struggling with their mental illnesses. One of
them we'll call Diana (not her real name). Diana struggles with bipolar
disorder. This illness brought tragedy into her life, even leading to a
divorce from her partner. That was certainly very painful. On one hand, with
the bipolar disorder she suffers, Diana has to take psychiatric medications.
The illness and side effects from the medications made her unproductive and
often feeling weak. Diana complained that she often felt lethargic and sleepy.
She also struggled to accept herself, becoming heavier due to the medication.
On the other hand, worries about living sufficiently often haunted her. She
had to fight to provide for herself and her child, in addition to battling her
illness. Her life struggle was not easy.

Many mental health sufferers have struggles like Diana, battling to accept
their conditions. They find it difficult to accept themselves and be at peace
with who they are. Often, they face internal conflicts and anxiety when
confronted with their own weaknesses. I understand because I have experienced
the same. It is difficult to accept the reality that we are weak and ill.
However, when we continuously fail to accept reality and instead try to fight
it, the burden and pressure feel even greater.

When internal conflicts make problems bigger, we find it hard to be thankful
and feel complete. Conversely, trying to learn to accept and be at peace with
oneself can give us the great strength needed to face life's realities.
Therefore, we truly need to accept that we are weak, fragile, and always in
need of God's grace alone.

Those who cannot accept themselves, even hating themselves, may end up
committing suicide. The inability of mental illness sufferers to accept and be
at peace with themselves can lead to internal conflict, which may drive them
to suicide. This happened to Rick Warren's son, the author of the famous book
"The Purpose Driven Life". His son Matthew Warren struggled with bipolar
disorder and ultimately took his own life. I do not know the exact story and
struggles in detail, but I feel that my own struggle with mental illness is
also not easy. Some time later, I also heard a similar story about a famous
American actor, Robin Williams. He too suffered from bipolar disorder and died
by suicide. It is truly tragic. It is a painful life reality when someone has
to have conflict with themselves.

When reflecting on life, we need to realize that the life God has given us is
a gift that we must appreciate. In this life filled with joys and sorrows, we
must have eyes that can see the good in this world. Indeed, there are many
beautiful things that exist and happen in this world. Let's not focus only on
suffering so that we blind ourselves to the presence of hope. We must learn to
have hope that everything will work out for the good of those who love God
(Romans 8:28). The Bible says He makes everything beautiful in its time
(Ecclesiastes 3:11). That's why we need to be at peace with ourselves and
accept all our weaknesses and fragility as human beings.

Living a vulnerable and fragile life does not mean that we compromise with our
sins and mistakes. Instead, it is about accepting all weaknesses and the human
frailty that God has given us. This understanding is implied in the following
prayer:

Lord, grant me the serenity  
To accept the things I cannot change;  
The courage to change the things I can;  
And the wisdom to know the difference.

In this prayer, we ask for serenity. What we truly need is a calm heart to
bravely change the things we can, as well as serenity to accept all
weaknesses, vulnerabilities, frailties, and shortcomings that we cannot
change. This is what we need. Accepting weakness is not easy. It is painful,
but it will heal in time.

From my experience grappling with mental illness, there were times when I was
completely bedridden, unable to do anything, and unproductive. I could only
rest and sleep in bed. The tranquilizers worked so strongly that they left me
lying passively in bed, staring at the ceiling, sometimes for months at a
time. If we hold the narrow view that humans only have meaning if they can
work and produce, I would feel meaningless. However, from a perspective of
vulnerable and fragile humanity, I believe all these experiences have meaning.
Lying in bed, I realized I am nothing. I am weak and dependent on God's grace,
on the medical treatment I receive, on the food prepared for me. I truly felt
my life was frail and dependent.

Modern humans have myths about independence and self-reliance, as if they can
meet their own needs. Yet, if we are honest, even in the womb we depend on our
mothers. After birth, we need parents to care for and nurture us. Throughout
schooling, from kindergarten to high school and even college, we rely on
parents for financial and life guidance. Then, we say only children depend on
parents. Adults don't depend on others because they can provide for
themselves. However, Jesus said something interesting about children:  
"People were bringing little children to Jesus for him to place his hands on
them, but the disciples rebuked them. When Jesus saw this, he was indignant.
He said to them, 'Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them,
for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. Truly I tell you, anyone who
will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.'
And he took the children in his arms, placed his hands on them and blessed
them." (Mark 10:13-16)

Jesus meant that whoever does not receive the Kingdom of God like a little
child will never enter it. "Like a child" here doesn't mean to be childish,
but to have the heart of a child, who trusts and depends fully on their
parents.

Before God, we need to be like children who depend on Him. In our
relationships with others, we also depend on each other. When someone is
elderly, they become like children again, dependent on others for life's
necessities. As we approach death, we must lie down and passively depend on
the kindness of those around us. We must remember that human nature requires
interdependence because we are all vulnerable and fragile. We are indeed poor
creations dependent on God's grace. Blessed are we when we realize we are poor
before God because we will have the Kingdom of Heaven. This realization
enables us to depend on God like children.

As humans, we also often have great anxieties. When worried, the needs and
difficulties of life seem more real than the presence of God. Unconsciously,
we think that although God created us, He is far away when it comes to
sustaining our lives. Yet, God is close to us and accompanies us. Jesus
Christ, the Son of God who became human and understands human difficulties,
advised his disciples not to worry.

"Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or
drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more than food, and
the body more than clothes? Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or
reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you
not much more valuable than they? Can any one of you by worrying add a single
hour to your life?" (Matthew 6:25-27)

The Lord Jesus provides us with a way out concerning these worries. He
promised that when we seek the Kingdom of God and His righteousness, all these
things will be added to us (Matthew 6:33). This promise means that God will
always take care of our lives as we live out our calling in the Kingdom of God
in this world. It also means that this world is not in a closed system, where
God cannot intervene in human life. On the contrary, God is always involved in
the act of caring for His children in this world. God is always with His
people and will not leave them. The Book of Hebrews gives this advice clearly:  
"Keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you
have, because God has said: 'Never will I leave you; never will I forsake
you.'" (Hebrews 13:5)

When I had to lie down and depend only on God’s grace, I contemplated a lot
about the meaning of life. I realized, or rather was made to realize, that the
meaning of our life is not judged by what we produce or do (what we do or
act). The meaning of our life lies in our existence as ones loved by God (who
am I as a beloved one) and in what Jesus Christ has done for us.

Initially, I was very anxious when I had to evaluate myself by what I did or
produced. My identity was then determined by what I worked on and what I
produced, that is, in my profession and the money that came from it. I became
anxious if I did not become the ideal person in modern standards, that is,
productive, efficient, high-yielding, and strong. Yet, the ideal type of
person is an analogy of a productive and efficient robot. It was only by God's
grace that I then began to accept the reality that when I could not do
anything and was only able to be still before God, it was not in vain.
Because, by being still, I became more aware that I am accepted and loved by
God. In being still, I acknowledge that He is the ruler of my life.

With the position of accepting oneself, making peace with oneself, and being
calm before God, I could also hear His voice and was given the strength to do
what He asked me to do. I came to realize that I am a blessed person with my
existence, where I can be brought into a soothing atmosphere to be still,
calm, and hear His voice.

From that reflection, this book was created. In the end, I was enabled to
thank God for being allowed to have the experience of struggling with mental
illness for 17 years. Through that struggle, I could realize my calling, which
is to live out my vulnerable and fragile humanity in His grace, to hear His
voice in silence, and to carry out the responsibilities He gives in everyday
life according to the measure He sets. Sometimes, when I am healthier and able
to do more activities, I am given more responsibilities. However, when I am
weak, I believe that I am being given time to be calm, to be still and lean on
the sovereign God who governs this universe.

It is God's grace that enabled me to go through many valleys of the shadow of
death and darkness while struggling with mental disorders. It is also God's
grace that gave me the strength to complete my theological studies in 2014.
This journey in theological school has been a long journey that I have been
wrestling with since 1998. The grace of the past has truly become the
foundation of a solid hope that in the future there will also be grace that
will continue to accompany me and my family.

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 24. A Collection of Reflections from the Hospital (2008)
Prev Next article: 26. Testimony IV: After Graduating from Seminary (2014)
Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

