Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 26\. Testimony IV: After Graduating from Seminary (2014)

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 101

##  26\. Testimony IV: After Graduating from Seminary (2014)

"If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction."
(Psalm 119:92)

I, Jeffrey Lim, wrestled for 16 years (in and out) with theological school. I
grappled with various things, like a longing to know God and His word, as well
as to proclaim the Gospel. Eventually, I found that it was this very process
of struggle that God designed to bring hope, strength, and comfort to my
suffering due to the mental illness I experienced.

Matthew Warren, son of Rick Warren (author of the book Purpose Driven Life)
who had bipolar disorder, ended his life at the age of 27. William Cowper, the
hymn writer of "There is a Fountain Filled with Blood", who in the darkness of
his life due to depression had repeatedly tried to take his own life, remained
preserved by God's grace. The world might judge that it is futile for someone
with mental illness to struggle through 16 years of theological school.
However, I believe it is a great grace, where God preserved and strengthened
me to be able to live with a mental illness that affects my thoughts,
feelings, and distorts my life functions.

In my reflections during my time at the seminary, God taught me about the
nature of mental illness. The medical model of secular psychology sees the
nature of mental illness only from the biological side. Jay E. Adams, founder
of the Biblical Counseling movement, sees another aspect of mental illness,
namely the spiritual issue (sin). Jim Olthuis, author of the book Beautiful
Risk, sees the love-beloved relationship as a form of therapy for
psychological struggles. Eventually, I understood that the aspects of mental
disorders are multidimensional, including biological, psychological, social
(relational), and spiritual aspects.

In my long struggle with mental illness, I realistically learned that there is
a possibility I need to take medication for life. Medication is a common grace
from human research through general revelation. Medicine helps in biological
terms. However, apart from medication, I believe what is more essential is the
concept of the sufficiency of Scripture in matters of faith, practice, and the
Christian worldview. Secular psychology might help alleviate suffering, but it
does not resolve the core struggle itself. The need to receive love and
forgiveness from God, His justification, and sanctification from Him are
deeper spiritual needs. Spiritual issues like guilt and shame, which often
accompany those with mental illness, must be resolved in relation to God.
Then, I also gained insight from biblical counseling, that the goal of
biblical counseling is not merely to obtain healing, but to glorify God and to
be formed to be more like Him in progressive sanctification. So, the paradigm
is not for healing, but for sanctification.

I think, God knows that the measure of my mental illness requires a deeper
understanding of the word. Therefore, I had to go to theological school to
obtain hope, strength, and comfort that enabled me to endure. Like the title
of the song "God Moves in Mysterious Ways" by William Cowper, I believe that
God works in His mysterious ways, beyond my thoughts, to bring me to know Him
as well as myself at the deepest level of my heart.

All glory to the Triune God alone!

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 25. Reflection II: Embracing and Celebrating Our Fragility
Prev Next article: 27. Testimony V: Eben-Haezer (2023)  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

