Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 27\. Testimony V: Eben-Haezer (2023)

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 118

##  27\. Testimony V: Eben-Haezer (2023)

Nine years have passed since I experienced the most severe episode of mental
disturbance in 2014. Since then, God has provided protection and recovery for
me. Praise the Lord that I was also able to complete my Master of Theology
thesis at STTRII and graduate. The long journey to complete my theological
studies was not easy. Thankfully, God gave me Laura Lee to be my wife, who has
always been faithfully by my side, even though we often faced economic
challenges.

Actually, after graduating from STTRII, we briefly returned to Bandung and
settled there for a year. Then, at one point, specifically at the end of 2015,
God led us to Tanjung Pinang to venture and struggle there. Tanjung Pinang is
a city close to Laura's birthplace, where her parents live. It was in Tanjung
Pinang that we started a new life.

Over the nine years in Tanjung Pinang, even until now, God has performed many
miracles. I was once allowed by God to work as an IT Manager at a Singaporean
company for three years, even though I was not in the best health at that
time. It is indeed strange and an incredible blessing from God. In addition,
while working part-time as an IT Manager, I was also able to serve at the
Yayasan Lembaga SABDA, thanks to support from Mr. Tjahjadi Lie, the brother of
the rector of my institute at Reformed Institute, Mr. Joshua Lie. It was Ko
Toni Afandi, an old friend from STTRII, who introduced me to Mr. Tjahjadi
Rameli Lie. Moreover, I also participated in IT ministry under Mr. Tjahjadi's
son, David Limanputra, to develop the MySABDA Study Bible Application.

In these nine years, my life has become more stable. The dosage of medications
I need to take has decreased, yet remains stable. I believe that God continues
to lead me towards a deeper healing process. His goodness and mercy continue
to follow me. Additionally, I believe that what is most important is not just
to be healed, but to be a blessing and declare the glory of God, because that
is what we are called for.

During these nine years, we are also grateful that God enabled us to buy a
house so we can have our own place. Looking back, in 2014, our economy had
once dropped to zero, even into the negatives. However, God continued to help
us, our family relationships, and our health, until we were able to own our
home.

I sometimes reflect. Bipolar disorder sometimes requires me to rest a lot.
Yet, it turns out that even in rest, God continues to bless because the Keeper
of our lives never sleeps.  
"A song of ascents. Of Solomon. Unless the LORD builds the house, the builders
labor in vain. Unless the LORD watches over the city, the guards stand watch
in vain. In vain you rise early and stay up late, toiling for food to eat—for
he grants sleep to those he loves." (Psalm 127:1)

Now, I feel a profound sense of gratitude. I know that up to this stage, God
has helped me (Eben-Haezer). Thanks be to God! Besides, God also allowed me to
serve Him in the Bible Study program, deliver the word, give reflections, do
counseling, teach IT programming in church, present spiritual seminars on
Zoom, and more. All of this is an extraordinary grace from God. With each
passing day, I feel more grateful because God has brought us into a spacious
land.

I believe that God has not finished His work with me yet. He will continue to
work in my life, for He who has called me to serve Him is faithful. He will
carry on His work in me, just as Apostle Paul said:"I am confident of this
very thing, that He who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day
of Christ Jesus." (Philippians 1:6)

I believe that God has already prepared all the good works for the future, in
which He wants me to live.  
"For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God
prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them." (Ephesians 2:10)

I also believe that the year 2023 is not the end of my struggles and
testimonies but a starting point in my life to be renewed in the Lord, to
glorify Him more, and to become a greater blessing to others. When God has
allowed and accompanied me through the valley of the shadow of death, I am
also enabled to believe and see with the eyes of faith that: "Surely goodness
and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; and I will dwell in the
house of the LORD forever." (Psalm 23:6)

My prayer is that the Lord would use me again at His altar, to be a fragrant
offering for the glory of His name. And, may I continue to be close to the
Lord, as David said through his Psalm:  
"One thing I have asked from the LORD, that I shall seek: that I may dwell in
the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the
LORD and to meditate in His temple." (Psalm 27:4)

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 26. Testimony IV: After Graduating from Seminary (2014)
Prev Next article: This Life is Full of Struggle  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

