Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 7\. Human and Their Purpose in Life

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 116

##  7\. Human and Their Purpose in Life

“When I consider Your heavens, the work of Your fingers, the moon and the
stars, which You have set in place: what is mankind that You are mindful of
them? What are the sons of men that You care for them? Yet, You have made them
a little lower than God, and crowned them with glory and honor. You made them
rulers over the works of Your hands; You put everything under their feet: all
flocks and herds, and the animals of the wild; the birds in the sky, and the
fish in the sea, and all that swim the paths of the seas.” (Psalms 8)

“I am created in the image and likeness of God. Therefore, if I do not know
God, then I do not know myself.” -- Craig D. Lounsbrough

In living life as humans, we need to have meaning and a purpose in life.
Without meaning and purpose, life would feel empty and meaningless. Life would
also be futile without a purpose. It is gratifying that human life does have
meaning. Human life has a purpose. And, to understand the meaning and purpose
of our lives, we first need to know who humans really are.

The Greek philosopher said, “Know thyself!” Knowing oneself is something
important. By knowing ourselves, we understand the meaning of life, know our
identity, purpose of life, and reality. This is truly important. And, one of
the most important questions in human history is: What is mankind? Who is
mankind? Who am I?

The world view from the perspective of atheism is naturalism. Secular people
who embrace the philosophy of naturalistic materialism do not believe in the
existence of God. Naturalists believe that the universe is merely natural
matter, not supernatural. To support the theory of a natural universe they
need a theory that can explain the origin of the universe and mankind. This
theory is needed to underpin naturalism into a comprehensive worldview. Thus,
to support the naturalism theory, the theory of Evolution or Darwin’s theory
developed.

Based on scientific understanding, is it true that the process of human
creation as stated in the theory of Evolution, that is, originating from apes
that have evolved? And, can the theory of Evolution itself be called science?

What is stated in the theory of Evolution is actually beyond the physical
realm. Because, science is concepts, laws, principles, and theories that
emerge as a result of observation and trials and can be tested and observed
further. Meanwhile, the theory of Evolution is more suitably categorized as a
philosophical question about the origin of mankind that does not have
empirical proof. It can be said that naturalism with its theory of Evolution
is not science, but rather metaphysical or beyond the physical realm.  
If humans are the same as animals then the values that state that humans are
noble beings become lost. If humans are like animals then the absolute moral
values in humans can be denied because they are not beings that have
transcendental value within them. There need not be standards within humans.
Humans are merely beings that survive and determine their own values.

However, are animals and humans truly equal? Of course not. There is a
fundamental difference between humans and animals. Aristotle, a Greek
philosopher, said that humans are rational beings. It is this reason that
distinguishes humans from animals. Humans can analyze, can plan, can argue,
can formulate, can calculate, can draw, can do many things. This cannot be
done by animals, including the most intelligent animals.

Mencius, a philosopher from the East (China), said that humans are beings with
a conscience. It is this conscience that distinguishes humans from animals.
Humans can have compassion.

Humans have compassion. When we see someone sick, we feel their pain. When we
see someone suffering, we feel sad. A human without a conscience becomes more
evil than an animal. Why? Because, a human who has fallen into sin can have
drives, motives, and acts that are more vile than animals.  
Because humans are so different from animals, the theory of Evolution can be
declared wrong. There is a difference between living and non-living things,
between animals and plants, between animals and humans. Each has very clear
differences.

If the theory of Evolution doesn't account for the origin of humans, then
where do humans come from? What is a human?  
The Bible, as the word of God, teaches that God created humans in His image
and likeness. God said, “Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness.”
(Genesis 1:26). Humans were created last in the order of creation. Typically,
the last in any sequence might be considered the least significant or
important. However, in the creation event, the opposite is true. Humans, being
created last, became the most important of creations. Why? Because humans were
created with the purpose of enjoying everything that had been created before
them.

Here we see that sequence provides interpretation.

In Genesis 1:26 it is stated:  
“Then God said, ‘Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness, so that
they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the
livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the creatures that move along
the ground.’”

Who is “Us” in Genesis 1:26? Why is there a plural term “Us” in this verse?
Does “Us” refer to a dialogue between God and angels? Certainly not, because
God is different from angels. It’s impossible that “let us make mankind in our
image” means in the image of both God and angels. God is the Creator, whereas
angels are creations. Thus, “Us” here refers to the Triune nature of God.

In the book of Genesis, there are hints or indications of the Trinity. First,
in the plural form of Elohim, and in the singular form of bara (to create).
Then, it appears again in the word “Us” at the time of human creation. Genesis
1:26 hints at the existence of the Triune God.

The Bible teaches that humans were created in the image and likeness of God.
What does this mean? Humans are not animals, nor angels, nor are they God. We,
as humans, must find our correct position.  
So, who is mankind?

Humans are the image and likeness of God.

What does the image and likeness of God mean?

1\.    God is the source of human life.  
Humans have one origin or source from God. We are created like Him. This means
that when we are creations that are not good, it is because we do not realize
that we ought to be like Him. Humans should not be self-centered but must
return to God. Humans must resolve all their difficulties there.

2\.    Glorifying God is the purpose of human life.  
God teaches us that human life has a purpose. This signifies that human life
has meaning. The life we have is meaningful. Humans are like God. This means
we must improve our lives to be like our Creator, God. God, who is the Alpha
and Omega, is also our starting point and our end. We come from Him, and in
the life we lead, there is a process of living to please the Lord. We must
glorify God, as the Motivator, Decider, and Judge of our actions. God is the
purpose because we were created in the image and likeness of God.

3\.    Humans must emulate God Himself.  
Jesus, who once visited human history, is the standard for human life. We must
live by emulating Him.  
“Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart,
and you will find rest for your souls.” (Matthew 11:28-29)

We are called to be like Christ in our morality. For this, we need to learn
from Christ. God is holy, so we must be holy. God is good, so we must be good.
God is love, so we must love. God is just, so we must be just. God is
glorious, so our lives must be glorious. God is patient, so we must be
patient. God is wise, we must be wise. God is merciful, we must be merciful.
God is forgiving, so we must also forgive. We must emulate all of God's moral
qualities.  
Why is learning about God so important? Because when we know God, we will know
ourselves. And, as we come to know ourselves more, we also come to know God
more. Knowing God is also essential because knowledge of God is the source and
foundation of ethical life. When we know God, we are called to emulate Him,
which becomes the basis of human ethical life.

4\. Humans are like God, but not God.  
Humans were created in the image and likeness of God. This means that humans
are like God, but they are not God because humans are created beings. Being in
the image and likeness of God does not mean that humans are the same as God.
Humans are merely images, representations of God. Our lowliness is apparent in
the creation event, where God formed Adam not from gold, silver, diamonds, or
rubies, but from the dust of the ground. Before falling into sin, humans were
figures of clay. This signifies that humans are fundamentally fragile and
lowly.

However, as the image and likeness of God, humans are both lowly creations and
noble beings. We are indeed just images, but images of GOD. God decided to
make humans a creation with unparalleled value and dignity. The Creator God
declares that we are His image and likeness—an image and likeness that is
magnificent, with a dignity determined divinely. We are valuable because we
represent the throne of the Kingdom of God on earth. Rich or poor, educated or
not, attractive or not, we are the image of God.

Because we are the image and likeness of God, we are valuable and our lives
are meaningful. Our self-worth is not based on external things such as wealth,
talent, skill, career, job, stability, or health, but from within ourselves,
as the image and likeness of God. However, in a world that has fallen into
sin, humans misinterpret their self-worth. Humans tend to judge by what is
seen, such as physical appearance (tall, short, fat, thin, beautiful, ugly),
jobs (driver, maid, civil servant, private employee, trader), social status
(rich, poor), and various other categorizations.

Who humans truly are does not depend on physical appearance, jobs, skills, or
social status. All these are things that are outside of us or predicates. In
language lessons at school, we were taught the difference between 'Subject'
and 'Predicate'. Often, humans judge themselves and others based on their
predicates, not their subjects. However, the subject is more important. So,
who am I? Who I am is not determined by what I do. However, who I am
determines what I do. We are valuable.

In relation to sufferers of depression, they too are noble and valuable
creatures because they are created in the image and likeness of God. So,
sufferers of depression should not demean themselves. They should not feel
inferior. Life is valuable, and on that basis, sufferers of depression should
not commit suicide. God loves us, even He was willing to die for us.
Therefore, we must value ourselves as God values us. However, we also should
not be arrogant. Inferiority and arrogance are like twins, they are similar.
Besides not needing to feel inferior, we also need to control ourselves and
not think more highly than we ought to think. Our life is for the Lord God,
and it is valuable. Our self-worth lies in what the Bible says, that we are
the image and likeness of God.

Because we are God's precious image, those who wrestle with the dark night of
the soul must realize that our paradigm in viewing reality and life stories is
not based on a context of survival or staying alive as believed by people who
do not know God in their naturalistic and evolutionist thinking. However, our
life paradigm is as children of God, who are loved by God and learn to love
God. Our life story has hope because it is not a closed system; there is a God
who created, sustains, even redeems, and leads us to glory. May God help us!

Prayer:  
Thank you, Lord, for creating us in your image and likeness. Thank you for the
grace you have bestowed upon our lives. We want to be the extension of your
hands on this earth. Therefore, help us to be witnesses of your glory. In the
name of Lord Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen.

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 6. Knowing the Names of God as The Tower of Help  Prev Next
article: 8. Human and Their Problems  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

