Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. 8\. Human and Their Problems

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 122

##  8\. Human and Their Problems

"Because all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God."  
(Romans 3:23)

"One leak will sink a ship, and one sin will destroy a sinner." -- John Bunyan

The Bible states that God created humans in His own image and likeness. This
means that humans were made to resemble God. Therefore, humans can think and
have reason. Humans are also capable of feeling and acting according to their
free will. We have also known that God created humans from the dust of the
ground and breathed life into them.

"Then the LORD God formed the man from the dust of the ground and breathed
into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living being."
(Genesis 2:7)

Humans consist of a visible body and an invisible soul. After God breathed
life into humans, the first man, Adam, became a living being. Humans are alive
both physically and spiritually. The body and soul can be distinguished within
a person, but they cannot be separated. The first man lived both physically
and spiritually.

The struggle with the dark night of the soul/depression must be viewed and
understood by considering the existence of two parts within humans, namely the
body and the soul.

Depression can come from the body, that is, biological/organic factors. This
can be caused by damage within the brain or an imbalance of chemicals in the
brain.

However, depression can also come from the soul, from within the heart and
mind (non-organic). This problem can arise from seriously incorrect
perceptions of reality, lifestyle patterns, living habits, is a form of
camouflage, or because of a conscience that is fearful and anxious.

Because the problem of depression can occur due to physical or spiritual
factors, it is necessary to see where the origin or cause of the problem is.
To resolve the physical or bodily issue, the sufferer needs to go to a doctor.
Meanwhile, to resolve their spiritual problems, they need to come to God,
which can be done personally or with the guidance of a spiritual leader.

This, of course, requires a process that is not simple and cannot be resolved
quickly.  
Physical and spiritual problems can be seen through the manifestation of their
symptoms, both physically and spiritually.

The usual physical symptoms experienced are:  
1\. Insomnia or hypersomnia.  
2\. Significant weight change.  
3\. Feeling restless or becoming slow.  
4\. Fatigue and loss of energy.  
5\. Difficulty concentrating.  
6\. Feeling alienated from things once considered beautiful and enjoyable.  
7\. Feeling sad, gloomy, and depressed.

While the spiritual symptoms experienced by depression sufferers are:  
1\. Shame.  
2\. Guilt.  
3\. Fear.  
4\. Ingratitude.  
5\. Inability to forgive.  
6\. Despair.  
7\. Distrust.  
8\. Anger.

The first humans, Adam and Eve, initially lived in fellowship with God. This
means humans were in relation to their source of life, which is God. In the
beginning, humans who lived in fellowship with God were fully owned by the
Lord. They lived securely and with significant meaning. God also met their
fundamental soul needs, namely the need to be accepted/belong, self-security,
and life significance which were fulfilled in God.

Adam and Eve, who had a close relationship with God, could feel how they were
owned by the Lord. Both were in a relationship of mutual possession,
acceptance, and love for one another. The relationship of humans with God and
with each other was in a harmonious love relationship.

The first humans were also in a state of safety because they were with God.
Whatever they needed was provided by God. Their souls could be calm and
peaceful because they were in a peaceful state with God.

Then, the first humans had a significant and meaningful life. They were
created with a purpose set by God, namely to reproduce, dominate the earth,
and glorify their Creator. With God's clear decrees and purpose for humans,
human life had a significant and meaningful purpose.

After creating them, God placed humans to live in the Garden of Eden to
cultivate and maintain it. He then commanded them to eat from all the trees in
the garden, except for the fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and
evil. For if they ate of that fruit, they would die.

However, humans later violated God's word. The devil, disguised as a serpent,
tempted Eve to eat the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. He
said that if humans ate of that fruit, their eyes would be opened and they
would be like God. Eve was tempted by the devil's enticement. Her heart was
drawn when she saw the fruit, so she took the fruit and ate it. Eve then gave
the fruit to Adam, who also ate it. This was the first sin of man. They
violated God's word.

To sin itself means to commit acts that violate the rules set by God. To sin
also means to live without reaching the target of what God has set. Sin is the
greatest tragedy of humanity and becomes our main problem in this world. God's
word says that when the first humans ate the fruit of the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil, they would die, both physically and spiritually.
Although Adam and Eve were still alive physically, they were dead spiritually.
This is what happened to humanity after falling into sin. Although we have a
physical body when born into this world, our spirituality is dead. To be dead
spiritually means that humans have lost their source of life, which is God.
Humans have lost fellowship with God. After falling into sin, God expelled
humans from the Garden of Eden. Thus, enmity between humans and God occurred.

Sin causes the consequence of God's punishment on humans, and it makes humans
suffer. Women will toil during pregnancy and with pain they will give birth,
while men will earn their living with hardship from the cursed ground. This
first human sin is passed down from generation to generation to this day.

What is the influence of sin on the human soul? In a state of sin, humans no
longer recognize God. Humans lose the correct perception of the reality of
God, of themselves, and of this universe. Humans become foolish and their
minds darkened because they no longer have a relationship with God. Humans
know something about God, but do not relate to Him.

Then, there is also the consequence of sin on human emotions. When falling
into sin, humans become fearful, guilty, and anxious. The first emotion that
appeared when humans fell into sin was fear. Fear becomes the dominating
emotion of humans. In the context of mental disorder conditions, we often see
how feelings of fear, guilt, and anxiety dominate their lives. Fear is the
effect of human downfall into sin.

Another emotion produced by sinful humans is shame. Before Adam and Eve
sinned, they were naked and not ashamed. But after falling into sin, they
became ashamed and tried to cover their nakedness. That is why humans like to
wear various masks on themselves. This mask is worn because we are afraid of
being hurt and not accepted by others if our true selves are revealed. In
modern psychological theory, this is known as a defense mechanism, which is an
effort by humans to protect themselves from other threats. This is done so
that humans feel safe. Humans consider others a threat when they see the
'nakedness' of themselves. And, primarily the feelings of shame and fear are a
manifestation of the fear of the Holy God over the sinful self.

Another negative emotion that sinful humans have is guilt. After falling into
sin, Adam and Eve became afraid and hid. This is because they felt guilty
before the holy God. Their hearts were not calm and fearful because they felt
guilty. Guilt produces a feeling of guilt. Thus is the condition of those who
are in sin. The devil and his conscience always accuse the sinful self. God's
law in the human heart judges humans so that sinful humans will feel guilty
because of their sinful deeds. That is why, humans will not be able to feel
calm before making peace with God.

Before falling into sin, all the basic needs of the human soul were met in
God. After falling into sin, the needs of the human soul, namely to be
accepted/belong, to feel safe, and to have a meaningful life are no longer
fulfilled because they are disconnected from God. As a result of sin, in
addition to being alienated from God, humans are also alienated from each
other. The harmonious relationship with God is lost, replaced by enmity.
Likewise, the relationship with each other. Adam accused Eve to defend himself
when God asked if he had eaten from the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
Sin damages the good relations humans have with each other.  
When we look at the struggles of those experiencing the dark night of the
soul/depression, many of them are alienated from others. This happens because
they withdraw from the social environment. They distance themselves, even
becoming aggressive and hurting others, precisely because they are afraid of
being hurt. Those suffering from depression are actually individuals filled
with fear and inner wounds. Why are humans afraid of others? Because they do
not want to be humiliated, laughed at, insulted, and rejected. Fear also
arises because we do not want others to attack, oppress, or threaten our
existence.

In addition to the relationship with God and others being disharmonious, human
relationships with themselves are also disharmonious. Humans are so unique
that they can have a relationship with themselves (intrapersonal), which is
revealed through attitudes of acceptance or rejection of themselves. However,
due to sin that damages relationships, so many people end up hating
themselves. So many people cannot accept themselves, even judging themselves.
They torture themselves, even to the point of deciding to commit suicide. This
is the effect of the fall into sin.

Many psychologists agree that many people have low self-worth today. I once
heard a story about an artist who was rich, beautiful, famous, and liked by
many people, but then died tragically by suicide. I know this story because I
used to be a fan of the martial arts series "Legend of Condor Heroes" with its
hero named Kwee Ceng. In the film, there is also a character named Oey Yong,
Kwee Ceng's lover, played by the actress Barbara Yung. She was a young,
beautiful, lively, and charming actress. Generally, if someone has a beautiful
and attractive physique, is famous, rich, and successful, the world will see
that person as having a happy and meaningful life. However, it is reported
that Barbara Yung committed suicide because of problems with her lover. Her
self-worth turned out not to come from her talent, intelligence, or beauty,
but from the acceptance of others. Self-worth is actually a matter of self-
identity.

Sinful humans try to meet their basic needs --acceptance, security, and self-
significance/meaning – in ways that come from the world, the flesh, and the
devil. That's why people strive to seek and achieve wealth, position, certain
social status, intelligence, talent, knowledge, wisdom, philosophy, religion,
life partners, sex, pleasure, and so on to fill their emptiness. However,
sinful humans will not be satisfied with all the pleasures that are artificial
or superficial. Only God can fulfill their deepest needs. The human soul will
not be at peace until they meet with God. That is why humans need to be
reconciled with God.

"You have made us for Yourself, O Lord, and our heart is restless until it
rests in You." – Augustine of Hippo



Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: 7. Human and Their Purpose in Life  Prev Next article: 9.
The Body and Soul of Man  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

