Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. Foreword by Rev. Jadi S. Lima

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      08.Nov

     Hits: 177

##  Foreword by Rev. Jadi S. Lima

I congratulate my friend, Jeffrey Lim, on the publication of his book. There
are three reasons why this book is interesting to read.

First, the authenticity of the author to willingly accept a condition that is
generally not welcomed by most people, namely a state of weakness. Jeffrey
writes, "It is a fact that humans generally do not like weakness, fragility,
vulnerability, and deficiency. Most people prefer strength, health, and
abundance." However, in line with the Apostle Paul's belief that in weakness
God's grace shines all the more, so too the merit of this writing lies in
Jeffrey's honesty in bluntly sharing what is less praiseworthy, and often
concealed by most people. In sharing Jeffrey's grim personal stories, the
light of God's mercy is clearly visible. The struggle with mental conditions
may last a lifetime, as experienced by William Cowper. This book does not
promise "7 Steps to Solve Your Problems Without Trouble," but rather shares
Jeffrey's life journey with his faithful God.

Second, in his writing, Jeffrey shares his experience of wrestling with
depression, schizoaffective disorder, bipolar, and paranoia, where he
struggles not with low self-esteem, anger, mental chaos, the high cost of
medication, or career difficulties, but with God himself. As someone who has
studied in theological school, Jeffrey relates his psychological problems to
theological concepts and finds that Christ and what God does in Jesus Christ
is the way back to light, goodness, and life's abundance. The root of all
human life problems is the rejection of God who is Truth, Wholeness, Light,
Goodness, Beauty, and Life itself. And who can help us with the problems we
face with ourselves, if not God himself? Who is the Mediator who can reconcile
us with the Creator, if not Jesus Christ? This reminds us that from the
beginning, the book of Genesis tells of God creating order in this world out
of chaos (Heb. tohu va bohu) and how the wickedness of humans caused the
return of that chaos in Noah's time. However, we also see how God promises to
keep that chaos from flooding the world again with evil and death. Even when
chaos reigns, God provides an ark (which in our times is often seen as
pointing to Christ) to be a refuge for all that lives. "Christ is the answer,"
has often become a cliché slogan—but it has never been an outdated truth.

Third, in this writing, you can see that Jeffrey includes many poems, both his
own and those quoted from hymn writers, some of whom struggle with various
enduring weaknesses until the end of their lives. Healing comes not only from
"what is right," but also "what is beautiful" and "what is good." The help and
comfort Jeffrey experiences in his life journey, as you will read, happen not
only through "theological concept improvement," or "mindset reform" through
counseling, or even just medication, but also supported by a network of
friendships that truly know, love, and accept Jeffrey as he is. Besides
friendship, the hymns he remembered during times of struggle also greatly
strengthened him. Here we see that Truth requires Goodness. And Goodness also
becomes more effective when it presents itself in a beautiful form, such as in
melodies, harmonies, lyrics, poems, and other works of art. In other words,
healing flows not only from the gut (through ingested medications), or from
the brain (through corrected concepts) alone, but also through many other
means, such as social relationships and works of art. Through all of this, God
reveals Himself and His help.  
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow!”

**Rev. Jadi S. Lima, S.Th., M.Div., M.A., M.Th. - Lecturer in Philosophy,
Logic, and Hermeneutics at STT Reformed Injili Internasional and Servant of
God at GRII**

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Previous article: Author's Preface  Prev Next article: Acknowledgments  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

