Select your language

English

  * English 
  * 简体中文 (中国) 

Search

Type 2 or more characters for results.

God's Light in The Midst of Darkness  Sharing of Jeffrey Lim

__

  * Home ( 家 )
  * Table of Content (目录)

__

  1. You are here:  
  2. Home
  3. Table of Content (目录)
  4. God's Light in The Midst of Darkness

**A Theological Reflection**

**in the Midst of the Soul’s Dark Night**

** ** ** **

_Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S._

Details

     Category: Book
     By Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》
Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》      07.Nov

     Hits: 300

After Darkness Comes Light!

When the Kingdom of God comes and is present in the life of a believer, this
is what becomes the hope for believers struggling through the dark night of
the soul.

In the book The Light of God in the Midst of Darkness, Jeffrey Lim provides
theological reflection and testimony about God's grace that gives hope as he
faced the struggles of the dark night of the soul for over 25 years. Over
time, the light of God proved to shine ever brighter in Jeffrey's life.
Victory after victory of faith was experienced because of the Lord's mercy.
From faith to faith. From grace to grace. From strength to strength. And, all
for the glory of the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.

This book contains various experiences, testimonies, and contemplations
accompanied by expressions such as poetry, prayers, reflections, and songs in
facing the dark night of the soul he encountered.

If Jeffrey was helped by the Lord, then the readers in Christ who experience a
similar dark night of the soul will surely also be helped by Him.

Jeffrey Lim, B.Comp, M.C.S was born in Bandung. An alumnus of St. Joseph's
Primary School Sukajadi in 1992, St. Aloysius Junior High School in 1995, St.
Aloysius High School in 1998, University of Technology, Sydney (2003), and
Reformed Evangelical Theological Seminary International (2014). Jeffrey is a
servant of God who founded the IT4God Club ministry, which is a Biblical
Computing and IT Training Club for children and teenagers and established the
Nepho Ministry. Jeffrey also delivers sermons & reflections in his ministry.
Jeffrey is married to Laura Lee, a general practitioner and acupuncturist, and
is blessed with a daughter named Fidelia Charis.

~ Nepho Ministry ~  
www.nepho.id



* * *





**In my deepest wound I saw your glory,**

**and it dazzled me.**

  
**St. Augustine of Hippo**





To my friends in the Lord,  
who are struggling with the dark night of the soul.



* * *





**Table of Contents**

  
Endorsement and Testimony

Author's Preface

Foreword by Rev. Jadi S. Lima

Acknowledgments

My Struggle with the Darkness of the Soul

Introduction

Pen Strokes: Life is Full of Mysteries



**Part I. Beginning with God**

1\. Knowing the Triune God

2\. The Ultimate Purpose: The Glory of God

3\. Knowing God as the Heavenly Father

4\. Knowing the Lord Jesus Christ as the Wonderful Counselor and Good Shepherd

5\. Knowing the Holy Spirit as the Comforter

6\. Knowing the Names of God as the Tower of Help

**Part II. Humanity and the Struggles of Body and Soul**

7\. Human and Their Purpose in Life

8\. Human and their Problems

9\. The Body and Soul of Man

10\. Sin and Its Solution: Christ

**Part III. The Redemption of Man in Christ**

11\. Justified Before God through Faith

12\. New Life in Christ

a. Being Born Again

b. New Nature and Status in Christ

c. Fullness in Christ

d. New Identity in Christ

13\. Spiritual Union in Christ

**Part IV. Sanctification, Restoration from Depression, and Spiritual
Discipline**

14\. Sanctification by the Holy Spirit

a. Sanctification of the Heart

b. Sanctification of the Mind

c. Sanctification of the Emotions

15\. Renewal of Heart and Mind (I)

a. Mind, Emotions, and Behavior

b. Warfare in the Mind

c. Bringing the Mind into Captivity to Christ

16\. Renewal of Heart and Mind (II)

d. Filling the Mind with the Word

e. Self-Talk

f. Music and Spiritual Praise

**Part V. A Healing Community**

17\. Life in Family and Church

18\. The Beautiful Risk of Sharing Life

**Part VI. Testimonies of Life**

19\. William Cowper, A Man with Depression Used by God

a. The Life Struggles of William Cowper

b. Reflections of Life in the Hymns of William Cowper

**Part VII. Reflections and Testimonies from Jeffrey Lim**

20\. Testimony I: Childhood to Adolescence Story (1980-1998)

21\. Testimony I: My Struggle with Mental Disorders (1998-2008)

22\. Testimony II: Tested to Hope and to be Patient (2003)

23\. Reflection I: Reflection on My Struggle with Depression (2005)

24\. Collection of Reflections from the Hospital (2008)

25\. Reflection II: Celebrating and Embracing Our Fragility

26\. Testimony III: After Graduating from Seminary (2014)

27\. Testimony IV: Eben-Ezer (Year 2023)



Pen Strokes: Life is Full of Struggle

Conclusion

Bibliography

Jeffrey Lim 《 林秉恩 》

Next article: Endorsements and Testimonies  Next

## Offering :

If you are moved to support this ministry, you can make an offering to : BCA
1392343223 A/N JEFFREY

Nepho Ministry

__

